# ELEC1601_Project
The product is a remotely controllable robot which is used to detect and survey areas believed to contain possible nuclear contamination.
The robot has wheels attached to facilitate movement. It is attached with a Geiger counter to measure ionising radiation, a temperature sensor and an ambient light sensor. These sensors are used to detect and measure nuclear contamination and its effects on the surrounding environment, and infer whether the area is safe for human presence. Once the environmental conditions have been measured by the robot, the data is sent back to the master control device. An infrared light and detector is equipped to facilitate safe automated movement of the robot. In addition, the robot is equipped with a buzzer to play alarms to warn individuals inside the possibly contaminated zone. Real-time controls, as well as an automated sweeping program will come pre-installed on the master control device. 
The product could be utilised in the following situations:
1.	After nuclear disasters, such as the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster of 2011, the radiation levels are often too high for humans to enter for investigation purposes, even with hazmat suits (hazardous materials suits). As a result, robots are sent in to measure the radiation levels of the various sectors of the contaminated zone. This product can be used in such a situation.
2.	Given the possibility of solar powered batteries, the robot could be adapted to be used to assist in scientific explorations. For example, the robot could be used in the surveying of areas before human contact is possible - similar to the Curiosity rover on Mars, measuring environmental conditions and transmitting back to base.
3.	With the ongoing threat of nuclear weaponry being used on the world, governments including the USA have recognised the need for nuclear detection devices to defend against the “smuggl[ing of] nuclear weapon[s] or radiological "dirty" bomb[s]” (Gustafson, 2007). This product could assist in such detection.
